### About `pg` package:

- An SQL transport client, means it sends SQL strings and receives tabular results.
- Which makes it a **DB Driver** and not a proper ORM.

### `SERIAL` vs `GENERATED { ALWAYS | BY DEFAULT } AS IDENTITY`
An AUTO_INCREMENT feature in Postgre, `SERIAL` was considered as the only auto increment shorthand feature until v10, then came `GENERATED { ALWAYS | BY DEFAULT } AS IDENTITY`.

`SERIAL`: If applied, no need to write `INT` explicitly as it implicitly implies the integer behavior to the field. Else pgAdmin will throw an error.

1. `GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY`: Stricter version of shorthand `Serial`, doesn't lets manual entry, allows only Auto Generated ids (but can bypass this behavior by adding `OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE` in the query).
2. `GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY`: Lineant version of shorthand `Serial`, allows manual entry, if no value provided, then it Auto Generates ids.

### Difference between `CHAR` , `VARCHAR` AND `TEXT`
In modern PostgreSQL (v18.1 as of 2026), these types share the same performance profile.

1. `CHAR(20)`: Only have fixed length. Pads (fills up) **Empty Spaces** if text is shorter than defined length. Causing bugs during String Comparisons.
2. `VARCHAR(20)`: Have variable length with a fixed ceiling value.
3. `TEXT`: Have variable length with no fixed ceiling value, considered as modern practice.

    ### Fun Fact: 
    1. We can define `VARCHAR` without giving a length value and is treated as same as `TEXT` dataytpe, leading **0 performance difference** b/w these (`VARCHAR(<size>)`, `VARCHAR` and `TEXT`).
    2. `TEXT` and `VARCHAR` without `<size>` has max limit of **1GB**.

## [Link for Datatypes Table 🔗↗](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype.html#DATATYPE-TABLE)